The Python programming language was developed in the 1980s by Guido Van Rossum at Centrum Wiskunde & Informatica (CWI) in the Netherlands as a successor to the ABC language (itself inspired by SETL), capable of exception handling and interfacing with the Amoeba operating system.



Programming languages can be classified into the following three categories:

Low-level programming languages: It involves communication with the system in binary format, consisting of 0s and 1s, which can be directly executed. These languages provide instructions that can be used to perform low-level operations such as memory management. An example of such language is Assembly Language.
High-level programming language: In this, the communication with the system occurs in the form of text (usually in English), which is easily readable and understandable by humans. Examples of such Languages include Ada, JavaScript, Python, Ruby, Java, etc.
Middle-level programming languages: These are languages that support both low-level features (like direct memory access, pointer arithmetic) and high-level features (like abstraction and structured programming). They are written in human-readable text and typically require a compiler to translate code into machine-executable instructions. Examples: C (most common), C++ (sometimes considered middle-level due to its C roots).


Python versions:

Guido Van Rossum published the first version of Python code (Python 0.9.0) at alt.sources in February 1991. This release included exception handling, functions, and the core data types.



Python 1.0 was released in January 1994. It included filters, map, reduce, and lambda.



Python 2.0 was released in October 2000. Features include list comprehension and garbage collection with reference cycles.



Python 3.0 was released in December 2008. This release removed duplicate constructs and modules, but it was not backward compatible with previous versions..



Do not panic. The features mentioned above will be discussed in detail in the later sections.



Python can be used for creating computer applications, computer games or even for testing microchips.

Answer:
The Python programming language evolved through many versions.