The instructions (called source code) written in Python programming language can be executed in two modes:



Interactive mode: In this mode, lines of code are directly written and executed in the Python interpreter shell, which instantaneously provides the results.
Normal or script mode: In this mode the source code is saved to a file with .py extension, and the file is executed by the Python interpreter.


As we learn Python in this course, we'll use the regular way of running code, which means writing our code in files with a .py ending. This is the practice adopted for building extensive programs in Python.



For example, calculator.py is called a Python source file.



The Python program statements have to be entered and saved in a file through a text editor, and then the file has to be executed to produce results.



If there are any errors in Python code then the system will let you know so that you can fix them.



There are two types of errors:

Syntax errors
Runtime errors.


1) Syntax errors are like grammatical errors in English. They occur when the defined rules are not followed.

For example:

prin("Hello World")


The Python interpreter generates the following syntax error as it did not find a name prin (as the correct method name is print).



Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "", line 1, in 
NameError: name 'prin' is not defined
When we change the code to print("Hello World"), the Python interpreter would print the output as follows

Hello World


2) Runtime errors occur due to incorrect algorithm/logic or wrong operations like dividing by zero during the program execution.

For example:

a = 10
b = 0
print(a / b)
The Python interpreter generates the following runtime error indicating that division by zero occurred during execution.

Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "", line 1, in 
ZeroDivisionError: division by zero

Answer:Python source code is written and saved in a file with .py extension.

